chapters/introduction.adoc, before:

// Copyright 2024 The Khronos Group Inc.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0


[[introduction]]
= Introduction

This document, referred to as the "`Sample Specification`" or just the
"`Specification`" hereafter, is a reference for creating repositories
containing actual Khronos Specifications.

The Sample Specification is not, itself, a ratified Khronos product.
Its purpose is to

  * Provide a reference repository which can be cloned as the starting point
    for new Khronos Specifications.
  * Provide examples and documentation for using specification repository
    tooling and infrastructure including:
  ** Boilerplate files needed by all Khronos repositories
  ** Licenses and Contributor License Agreements
  ** Asciidoctor markup and toolchain, of which this Specification is a an
     example.
  ** Continuous Integration tooling for Github and Khronos Gitlab.

The published version of this Specification is available in the
https://registry.khronos.org/Sample/[Sample Registry].

The repository used to generate the Specification is stored in the
https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Sample-Docs[Sample Documentation Repository]

The Sample Repository also has a public issue tracker, and allows the
submission of pull requests that improve the Specification.


[[introduction-conventions]]
== Document Conventions

This document is intended for use by Khronos Working Groups creating new
specifications.
As such, it includes some language that is relevant only when defining an
actual Specification.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
Informative notes, such as this paragraph, are used to provide commentary
and context.
====

Actual Khronos specifications are intended for use by both implementors, and
by application developers seeking to make use of implementations.
A specification forms a contract between these parties.

Specification text may address either implementors or developers.
Typically the intended audience can be inferred from context, though some
sections are defined to address only one of these parties.
Any requirements, prohibitions, recommendations or options defined by
<<introduction-normative-terminology, normative terminology>> are imposed
only on the audience of that text.


[[introduction-ratified]]
=== Ratification

_Ratification_ of a Khronos specification is a status conferred by vote of
the Khronos Board of Promoters, bringing that core version or extension
under the umbrella of the Khronos IP Policy.

The Sample Specification is not ratified, since it contains no IP, just
process documentation.
Actual Khronos specifications, including core versions and optional
Khronos-defined extensions, should be ratified prior to publication.
Ratification status is shown in the <<preamble, document preamble>>.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
Ratification status is primarily of interest to Khronos members developing
their own implementations of a specification.

For developers, ratification does not necessarily mean that an extension is
"`better`"; has a more stable API; or is more widely supported than
alternative ways of achieving that functionality.

Interactions between ratified and non-ratified extensions are not themselves
ratified.
====


[[introduction-informative-language]]
=== Informative Language

Some language in the specification is purely informative, intended to give
background or suggestions to implementors or developers.

If an entire chapter or section contains only informative language, its
title will be suffixed with "`(Informative)`".

All NOTEs are implicitly informative.


[[introduction-normative-terminology]]
=== Normative Terminology

Within this specification, the key words *must*, *required*, *should*,
*recommended*, *may*, and *optional* are to be interpreted as described in
https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt[RFC 2119 - Key words for use in RFCs to
Indicate Requirement Levels] (https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).
The additional key word *optionally* is an alternate form of *optional*, for
use where grammatically appropriate.

These normative words are emphasized in the Specification for clarity.
In text addressing application developers, their use expresses requirements
that apply to application behavior.
In text addressing implementors, their use expresses requirements that apply
to implementations.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
Please be conscious in use of normative terminology, and ensure that each
such use is agreed by the Working Group controlling a Specification.
These terms place constraints on implementations that may have consequences
for IP licensing and Ratification.
====

In text addressing application developers, the additional key words *can*
and *cannot* are to be interpreted as describing the capabilities of an
application, as follows:

*can*::
This word means that the application is able to perform the action
described.

*cannot*::
This word means that the API and/or the execution environment provide no
mechanism through which the application can express or accomplish the action
described.

These key words are never used in text addressing implementors.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
There is an important distinction between *cannot* and *must not*, as used
in a Khronos Specification.
*Cannot* means something an application literally is unable to express or
accomplish through the API or language.
*Must not* means something that the application is capable of expressing,
but the consequences of doing so are undefined: and potentially
unrecoverable for the implementation (see <<fundamentals-validusage>>).
====

Unless otherwise noted in the section heading, all sections and appendices
in this document are normative.


[[introduction-technical-terminology]]
=== Technical Terminology

Specifications often make use of commonly used, domain-specific engineering
terminology to identify and describe API constructs and and their
attributes, states, and behaviors.
For example, a "`Graphics Pipeline`" is a common term in the field of
computer graphics, but has a specific meaning with respect to the Vulkan
API.
The <<glossary,Glossary>> defines the basic meanings of such terms in the
context of the Specification.
The Specification body provides fuller definitions of the terms and may
elaborate, extend, or clarify the <<glossary,Glossary>> definitions.
When a term defined in the <<glossary,Glossary>> is used in normative
language within the Specification, the definitions within the Specification
govern and supersede any meanings the terms may have in other technical
contexts (i.e. outside the Specification).


[[introduction-normative-references]]
=== Normative References

References to external documents are considered normative references if the
Specification uses any of the normative terms defined in
<<introduction-normative-terminology>> to refer to them or their
requirements, either as a whole or in part.

The following documents are referenced by normative sections of the
specification:

TODO Use relevant actual references here (asciidoc user guide, SPDX website, etc.)

[[spdx]]
IEEE.
August, 2008.
_IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic_.
IEEE Std 754-2008.
https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2008.4610935 .

[[reuse]]
_Khronos Data Format Specification, version 1.3_.
https://registry.khronos.org/DataFormat/specs/1.3/dataformat.1.3.html .

Commit message:

Minor markup and build cleanup, change name of root asciidoc file

chapters/introduction.adoc, after:

// Copyright 2024 The Khronos Group Inc.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0


[[introduction]]
= Introduction

This document, referred to as the "`Sample Specification`" or just the
"`Specification`" hereafter, is a reference for creating repositories
containing new Khronos API or language specifications, referred to as
"`Khronos specifications`" hereafter.

The Sample Specification is not, itself, a ratified Khronos product.
Its purpose is to

  * Provide a reference repository which can be cloned as the starting point
    for new Khronos specifications.
  ** The reference repository may also be useful when creating
     other types of repositories, such as tutorials or sample code.
     The specification markup and build examples are less relevant to those
     use cases, but the repository structure and related files are relevant
     to any Khronos repository.
  * Provide examples and documentation for using specification repository
    tooling and infrastructure including:
  ** Boilerplate files needed by all Khronos repositories
  ** Licenses and Contributor License Agreements
  ** Asciidoctor markup and toolchain, of which this Specification is a an
     example.
  ** Continuous Integration tooling for Github and Khronos Gitlab.

The published version of this Specification is available in the
https://registry.khronos.org/Sample/[Sample Registry].

The repository used to generate this Specification is stored in the
https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Sample-Docs[Sample-Docs repository], and
should be referred to while reading this document.

The Sample-Docs repository also has a public issue tracker, and allows the
submission of pull requests that improve the Specification.


[[introduction-conventions]]
== Document Conventions

The Sample Specification is intended for use by Khronos Working Groups
creating new API or language specifications.
As such, it includes some material that is relevant only when defining a
new specification.
If you have forked the Sample-Docs repository as a starting point, you will
need to examine all files in the repository; edit or remove files as
appropriate for your project; and add new files for additional content
specific to your specification.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
Informative notes, such as this paragraph, are used to provide commentary
and context.
====

Khronos specifications are intended for use by both implementors, and
by application developers seeking to make use of implementations.
A specification forms a contract between these parties.

Specification text may address either implementors or developers.
Typically the intended audience can be inferred from context, though some
sections are defined to address only one of these parties.
Any requirements, prohibitions, recommendations or options defined by
<<introduction-normative-terminology, normative terminology>> are imposed
only on the audience of that text.


[[introduction-ratified]]
=== Ratification

_Ratification_ of a Khronos specification is a status conferred by vote of
the Khronos Board of Promoters, bringing that core version or extension
under the umbrella of the Khronos IP Policy.

The Sample Specification is not ratified since it contains no IP, just
process documentation.
Khronos specifications, including core versions and optional Khronos-defined
extensions, should be ratified prior to publication. Ratification status is
shown in the <<preamble, document preamble>>.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
Ratification status is primarily of interest to Khronos members developing
their own implementations of a specification.

For developers, ratification does not necessarily mean that an extension is
"`better`"; has a more stable API; or is more widely supported than
alternative ways of achieving that functionality.

Interactions between ratified and non-ratified extensions are not themselves
ratified.
====


[[introduction-informative-language]]
=== Informative Language

Some language in a Specification is purely informative, intended to
give background or suggestions to implementors or developers.

If an entire chapter or section contains only informative language, its
title will be suffixed with "`(Informative)`".

All NOTEs are implicitly informative.


[[introduction-normative-terminology]]
=== Normative Terminology

Within this specification, the key words *must*, *required*, *should*,
*recommended*, *may*, and *optional* are to be interpreted as described in
https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt[RFC 2119 - Key words for use in RFCs to
Indicate Requirement Levels] (https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).
The additional key word *optionally* is an alternate form of *optional*, for
use where grammatically appropriate.

These normative words are emphasized in the Specification for clarity.
In text addressing application developers, their use expresses requirements
that apply to application behavior.
In text addressing implementors, their use expresses requirements that apply
to implementations.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
Please be conscious in use of normative terminology, and ensure that each
such use is agreed by the Working Group controlling a specification.
These terms place constraints on implementations that may have consequences
for IP licensing and Ratification.
====

In text addressing application developers, the additional key words *can*
and *cannot* are to be interpreted as describing the capabilities of an
application, as follows:

*can*::
This word means that the application is able to perform the action
described.

*cannot*::
This word means that the API and/or the execution environment provide no
mechanism through which the application can express or accomplish the action
described.

These key words are never used in text addressing implementors.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
There is an important distinction between *cannot* and *must not*, as used
in the Specification.
*Cannot* means something an application literally is unable to express or
accomplish through the API or language.
*Must not* means something that the application is capable of expressing,
but the consequences of doing so are undefined: and potentially
unrecoverable for the implementation (see <<fundamentals-validusage>>).
====

Unless otherwise noted in the section heading, all sections and appendices
in this document are normative.


[[introduction-technical-terminology]]
=== Technical Terminology

Specifications often make use of commonly used, domain-specific engineering
terminology to identify and describe API constructs and and their
attributes, states, and behaviors.
For example, a "`Graphics Pipeline`" is a common term in the field of
computer graphics, but has a specific meaning with respect to the Vulkan
API.
The <<glossary,Glossary>> defines the basic meanings of such terms in the
context of the Specification.
The Specification body provides fuller definitions of the terms and may
elaborate, extend, or clarify the <<glossary,Glossary>> definitions.
When a term defined in the <<glossary,Glossary>> is used in normative
language within the Specification, the definitions within the Specification
govern and supersede any meanings the terms may have in other technical
contexts (i.e. outside the Specification).


[[introduction-normative-references]]
=== Normative References

References to external documents are considered normative references if the
Specification uses any of the normative terms defined in
<<introduction-normative-terminology>> to refer to them or their
requirements, either as a whole or in part.

The following documents are referenced by normative sections of the
Specification:

TODO Use relevant actual references here (asciidoc user guide, SPDX website, etc.)

[[spdx]]
IEEE.
August, 2008.
_IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic_.
IEEE Std 754-2008.
https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2008.4610935 .

[[reuse]]
_Khronos Data Format Specification, version 1.3_.
https://registry.khronos.org/DataFormat/specs/1.3/dataformat.1.3.html .
