chapters/repomanagement.adoc, before:

// Copyright 2024 The Khronos Group Inc.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

[[repository-management]]
= Repository Management

This chapter is not prescriptive, but describes issues actual specification
repositories may encounter, and some guidelines for dealing with them.

Exceptions to most of these guidelines exist, and can be discussed with Neil
Trevett and the Khronos Board of Promoters.


== Private and Public Repositories

Khronos tries to make as much of our material open source as possible.
The constraints of the IP agreements mean that most Khronos-approved
specifications are initially developed internally to Khronos, and only
published after ratification.

To meet both needs, there are usually two specification repositories: a
private version in Khronos' gitlab server, and a public version in the
`link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/[KhronosGroup]` organization on
GitHub.
This allows internal IP-sensitive development to take place while at the
same time, public issues and pull requests can be created for already
published versions of specifications.


== Repository Creation and Naming

Specifications are kept in repositories called `**Name**-Docs` where
`**Name**` is the name of the API or language being specified.

On gitlab, there is a naming hierarchy consisting of a gitlab _group_
containing multiple _projects_.
A group corresponds to a Khronos Working Group, and a project to a git
repository with associated gitlab issue tracker, merge request manager, CI
configuration, and so on.
For example, the `Sample` group contains the `Sample-Docs` project, which
includes the repository defining the `Sample-Docs` specification.
It exists at URL

https://gitlab.khronos.org/Sample/Sample-Docs

On GitHub, the naming hierarchy consists of our GitHub _organization_ (named
`KhronosGroup`), containing multiple _repositories_.
There is no deeper nesting possible, so we cannot use exactly the same path
to repositories on GitHub and gitlab.

GitHub repository names correspond to gitlab project names, and both
contain the actual git repository and associated tools.
We avoid name collisions on GitHub by using the gitlab project name as the
first part of the repository name, and using the repository name on GitHub
as the project name on gitlab.

Thus, the Sample-Docs repository on GitHub is at URL

https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Sample-Docs

[NOTE]
.Note
====
There is no hard requirement that corresponding repositories in gitlab and
GitHub be named the same.
For example, the gitlab group and project name for the Vulkan specification
are both `vulkan`, while the GitHub organization and repository name are
`KhronosGroup` and `Vulkan-Docs` respectively.

However, with the benefit of hindsight, it is better to use group, project
and repository names that are as similar as possible on both platforms.

When your Working Group eventually creates additional repositories, they
follow the same naming convention.
For example, if we were to add a `Tutorial` repository, its names on GitHub
and gitlab would be:

https://gitlab.khronos.org/Sample/Sample-Tutorial
https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Sample-Tutorial
====

Creating and configuring new groups, projects, and repositories is beyond
the scope of this document, and requires administrative privileges most
Khronos members do not have.
Please email mailto:memberservices@khronos.org[Member Services]
for assistance.
Once created, designated owners and administrators will be given privileges
sufficient for day-to-day upkeep of repositories.


== Synchronizing Repositories

It is important to keep GitHub and gitlab repositories synchronized.
Most changes, including bugfixes new versions and extensions of
specifications, are made on gitlab and propagated to GitHub after
ratification.
However, there is often feedback and changes proposed on GitHub by external
developers using a specification.

It is easiest to keep repositories synchronized if they share the same
commit history.
Initially, this can be accomplished by creating a repository clone with
multiple _upstreams_ for gitlab and github, and pushing branch(es) in the
local clone to both upstreams if they are to be published.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
For example, you might have a default (`main`) branch which corresponds to
the published version of your specification and exists on both GitHub and
gitlab, and a development (`devel`) branch which corresponds to the
in-development version of your specification and exists only on gitlab.
====

The specification editor's responsibilities include pushing changes from
gitlab to github when publishing specification updates developed internally,
and pushing from github to gitlab when accepting public feedback.
There are many ways of using git to accomplish this, such as cherry-picking
git commits, git merges, or even simple-minded `diff` / `git apply`.
If unsure how to proceed, you can always ask for advice on the Working Group
Chairs mailing list.

It is easy to accidentally leak internal material when synchronizing with
GitHub, so it's wise to develop strategies and automatic mechanisms to
reduce this risk.
For example, pushing a git tag from one repository to another can carry the
entire git history of that tag with it.


== Managing Community Interaction

Feedback and pull requests from external developers have been very valuable,
both for the improvements they represent and for the sense of engagement
with and responsiveness by Khronos developers they can result in.
Working Groups should have a process for monitoring and managing GitHub
activity from external developers.

External contributions can also pose IP risks and consume considerable
Working Group time on relatively minor matters.
Working Group chairs should be aware of these risks and manage time spent on
GitHub issues accordingly.

We do not want our public specification repositories to turn into technical
support forums for programming problems, driver issues, and so on.
We encourage external developers to use Khronos Discord or vendor-specific
forums, where they are also more likely to get good and timely answers, for
such questions.


== Publication Strategies

Working Groups should agree on when to _publish_ changes in their
repositories.
In one sense every commit pushed to a public GitHub repository is
"`published`", but the sense we mean this is of generating and releasing
specification artifacts corresponding to a particular point in the commit
history.
This can be done for a new core API version, a new language extension, or
just for a collection of bugfixes and clarifications.

Working Groups will normally go through a process like:

  * Agree on what set of changes to release and publish; why; and what to
    call the resulting artifacts.
  * Synchronize gitlab and GitHub repositories, then merge all relevant
    internal changes to the default branch.
  * Tag the resulting "`release`" appropriately.
    Semantic versioning names are often appropriate as git tag names.
  * Generate specification artifacts corresponding to the release.
  * Synchronize the default branch at the tag point back to GitHub.
  * Publish the artifacts in the Khronos Registry.
  * Make announcements if appropriate, on the Khronos website, Discord, or
    other channels.


=== The Khronos Registry

Most Khronos specifications are published in the
link:https://registry.khronos.org/[Khronos Registry].
This is a Khronos website containing multiple sections, one for each Working
Group using it.
Each section is backed by a corresponding GitHub repository which contains
artifacts such as HTML and PDF files.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
For example, the OpenCL Working Group maintains their pnublished
specification source in the
link:https://www.github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs[OpenCL-Docs] repository
on GitHub.

Artifacts generated from the specification repository are published in the
corresponding
link:https://www.github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Registry[OpenCL-Registry]
repository.
====

The registry repositories are only a means of publication.
GitHub cannot directly host HTML files - they can be downloaded, but not
viewed at a www.github.com repository URL.
The registry website automatically pulls updates pushed to the various
registry repositories.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
We do not keep specification artifacts in the specification repositories as
such generated files can very rapidly build up, consuming large amounts of
space.
====

[NOTE]
.Note
====
There are other ways of publishing artifacts, including:

  * GitHub Pages, which can publish artifacts generated in GitHub Actions
    CI.
  * In some cases, specifications are so simple that they can be written
    entirely in GitHub-flavored asciidoc markup, which is a subset of
    asciidoc markup, and viewed directly on the specification repository.
    This is usually only suitable for short, single-file documents.

Other approaches have pros and cons compared to the registry.
We think the registry is the best publishing approach for most
specifications.
====

Commit message:

Add more language about publishing via the Khronos Registry

chapters/repomanagement.adoc, after:

// Copyright 2024 The Khronos Group Inc.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

[[repository-management]]
= Repository Management

This chapter is not prescriptive, but describes issues actual specification
repositories may encounter, and some guidelines for dealing with them.

Exceptions to most of these guidelines exist, and can be discussed with Neil
Trevett and the Khronos Board of Promoters.


== Private and Public Repositories

Khronos tries to make as much of our material open source as possible.
The constraints of the IP agreements mean that most Khronos-approved
specifications are initially developed internally to Khronos, and only
published after ratification.

To meet both needs, there are usually two specification repositories: a
private version in Khronos' gitlab server, and a public version in the
`link:https://github.com/KhronosGroup/[KhronosGroup]` organization on
GitHub.
This allows internal IP-sensitive development to take place while at the
same time, public issues and pull requests can be created for already
published versions of specifications.


== Repository Creation and Naming

Specifications are kept in repositories called `**Name**-Docs` where
`**Name**` is the name of the API or language being specified.

On gitlab, there is a naming hierarchy consisting of a gitlab _group_
containing multiple _projects_.
A group corresponds to a Khronos Working Group, and a project to a git
repository with associated gitlab issue tracker, merge request manager, CI
configuration, and so on.
For example, the `Sample` group contains the `Sample-Docs` project, which
includes the repository defining the `Sample-Docs` specification.
It exists at URL

https://gitlab.khronos.org/Sample/Sample-Docs

On GitHub, the naming hierarchy consists of our GitHub _organization_ (named
`KhronosGroup`), containing multiple _repositories_.
There is no deeper nesting possible, so we cannot use exactly the same path
to repositories on GitHub and gitlab.

GitHub repository names correspond to gitlab project names, and both
contain the actual git repository and associated tools.
We avoid name collisions on GitHub by using the gitlab project name as the
first part of the repository name, and using the repository name on GitHub
as the project name on gitlab.

Thus, the Sample-Docs repository on GitHub is at URL

https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Sample-Docs

[NOTE]
.Note
====
There is no hard requirement that corresponding repositories in gitlab and
GitHub be named the same.
For example, the gitlab group and project name for the Vulkan specification
are both `vulkan`, while the GitHub organization and repository name are
`KhronosGroup` and `Vulkan-Docs` respectively.

However, with the benefit of hindsight, it is better to use group, project
and repository names that are as similar as possible on both platforms.

When your Working Group eventually creates additional repositories, they
follow the same naming convention.
For example, if we were to add a `Tutorial` repository, its names on GitHub
and gitlab would be:

https://gitlab.khronos.org/Sample/Sample-Tutorial
https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Sample-Tutorial
====

Creating and configuring new groups, projects, and repositories is beyond
the scope of this document, and requires administrative privileges most
Khronos members do not have.
Please email mailto:memberservices@khronos.org[Member Services]
for assistance.
Once created, designated owners and administrators will be given privileges
sufficient for day-to-day upkeep of repositories.


== Synchronizing Repositories

It is important to keep GitHub and gitlab repositories synchronized.
Most changes, including bugfixes new versions and extensions of
specifications, are made on gitlab and propagated to GitHub after
ratification.
However, there is often feedback and changes proposed on GitHub by external
developers using a specification.

It is easiest to keep repositories synchronized if they share the same
commit history.
Initially, this can be accomplished by creating a repository clone with
multiple _upstreams_ for gitlab and github, and pushing branch(es) in the
local clone to both upstreams if they are to be published.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
For example, you might have a default (`main`) branch which corresponds to
the published version of your specification and exists on both GitHub and
gitlab, and a development (`devel`) branch which corresponds to the
in-development version of your specification and exists only on gitlab.
====

The specification editor's responsibilities include pushing changes from
gitlab to github when publishing specification updates developed internally,
and pushing from github to gitlab when accepting public feedback.
There are many ways of using git to accomplish this, such as cherry-picking
git commits, git merges, or even simple-minded `diff` / `git apply`.
If unsure how to proceed, you can always ask for advice on the Working Group
Chairs mailing list.

It is easy to accidentally leak internal material when synchronizing with
GitHub, so it's wise to develop strategies and automatic mechanisms to
reduce this risk.
For example, pushing a git tag from one repository to another can carry the
entire git history of that tag with it.


== Managing Community Interaction

Feedback and pull requests from external developers have been very valuable,
both for the improvements they represent and for the sense of engagement
with and responsiveness by Khronos developers they can result in.
Working Groups should have a process for monitoring and managing GitHub
activity from external developers.

External contributions can also pose IP risks and consume considerable
Working Group time on relatively minor matters.
Working Group chairs should be aware of these risks and manage time spent on
GitHub issues accordingly.

We do not want our public specification repositories to turn into technical
support forums for programming problems, driver issues, and so on.
We encourage external developers to use Khronos Discord or vendor-specific
forums, where they are also more likely to get good and timely answers, for
such questions.


== Publication Strategies

Working Groups should agree on when to _publish_ changes in their
repositories.
In one sense every commit pushed to a public GitHub repository is
"`published`", but the sense we mean this is of generating and releasing
specification artifacts corresponding to a particular point in the commit
history.
This can be done for a new core API version, a new language extension, or
just for a collection of bugfixes and clarifications.

Working Groups will normally go through a process like:

  * Agree on what set of changes to release and publish; why; and what to
    call the resulting artifacts.
  * Synchronize gitlab and GitHub repositories, then merge all relevant
    internal changes to the default branch.
  * Tag the resulting "`release`" appropriately.
    Semantic versioning names are often appropriate as git tag names.
  * Generate specification artifacts corresponding to the release.
  * Synchronize the default branch at the tag point back to GitHub.
  * Publish the artifacts in the Khronos Registry.
  * Make announcements if appropriate, on the Khronos website, Discord, or
    other channels.


=== The Khronos Registry

Most Khronos specifications are published in the
link:https://registry.khronos.org/[Khronos Registry].
This is a Khronos website containing multiple sections, one for each Working
Group using it.
Each section is backed by a corresponding GitHub repository which contains
artifacts such as HTML and PDF files.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
For example, the OpenCL Working Group maintains their published
specification source in the
link:https://www.github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs[OpenCL-Docs] repository
on GitHub.

Artifacts generated from the specification repository are committed to the
corresponding
link:https://www.github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Registry[OpenCL-Registry]
repository, which is published at the
link:https://registry.khronos.org/OpenCL[OpenCL Registry].
====

The registry repositories are only a means of publication.
GitHub cannot directly host HTML files - they can be downloaded, but not
viewed at a www.github.com repository URL.
The registry website automatically pulls updates pushed to the various
registry repositories.

[NOTE]
.Note
====
We do not keep specification artifacts in the specification repositories as
such generated files can very rapidly build up, consuming large amounts of
space.
====

[NOTE]
.Note
====
There are other ways of publishing artifacts, including:

  * GitHub Pages, which can publish artifacts generated in GitHub Actions
    CI.
  * In some cases, specifications are so simple that they can be written
    entirely in GitHub-flavored asciidoc markup, which is a subset of
    asciidoc markup, and viewed directly on the specification repository.
    This is usually only suitable for short, single-file documents.

Other approaches have pros and cons compared to the registry.
We think the registry is the best publishing approach for most
specifications.
====

When a new Working Group needs needs to publish artifacts in the Khronos
Registry, they should work with mailto:memberservices@khronos.org[Member
Services] to create a Registry repository for those artifacts, and add it to
the Registry.
After the registry repository is setup, the specification editor should be
able to update it as needed for specification updates.
